### Week by week course description

Module One introduces you to different types of networks in the real world and why we study them. You will cover the basic elements of networks such as nodes, edges, and attributes and different types of networks such as directed, undirected, weighted, signed, and bipartite. You will also learn how to represent and manipulate networked data using the NetworkX library. The assignment will give you an opportunity to use NetworkX to analyze a networked dataset of employees in a small company, their relationships, and preferences of movies to watch for an upcoming movie night.

In Module Two you will learn about how to analyze the connectivity of a network based on measures of distance, reachability, and redundancy of paths between nodes. This type of analysis will allow you explore the robustness of a network when it is exposed to random or targeted attacks such as the removal of nodes and edges. In the assignment, you will practice using NetworkX to compute measures of connectivity of a network of email communication among the employees of a mid-size manufacturing company.

In Module Three you will explore ways of measuring the importance or centrality of a node in a network. You will cover several different centrality measures including Degree, Closeness, and Betweenness centrality, Page Rank, and Hubs and Authorities. You will learn about the assumptions each measure makes, the algorithms we can use to compute them, and the different functions available on NetworkX to measure centrality. You will also compare the ranking of nodes by centrality produced by the different measures. In the assignment, you will practice choosing the most appropriate centrality measure on a real-world setting, where you are tasked with choosing a person from a social network who should be given a promotional voucher in order to maximize the impact of the promotion on the network.

In Module Four you will explore the evolution of networks over time. You will learn about different models that generate networks with realistic features such as the Preferential Attachment Model and Small World Networks. You will also explore the link prediction problem, where you will learn useful features that can predict whether a pair of disconnected nodes will be connected in the future. In the assignment, you will be challenged to identify which model generated a given network. Additionally, you will have the opportunity to combine different concepts of the course by predicting the salary, position, and future connections of the employees of a company using their logs of email exchanges.
